Hello everyone.
Welcome to this UI UX crash course with anybody can develop in me.
Moving on Introduction to Design Fundamental.
Yes.
So there are a number of design fundamentals out there.
There are a lot of design fundamentals out there.
But for this course, we are going to focus on color and contrast white space, the short hierarchy,
complexity and simplicity, consistency and finally skill.
So color and contrast.
Contrast is the difference in luminance between two adjacent or overlaid colors.
Right.
If you look at my examples here below, you realize that's the first one.
Doesn't have a very good contrast here.
The design on my left, you see, last updated can hardly be seen because the contrast between that
in the background is quite poor.
But when you focus and look at the design on the right here, you see that last updated is quite visible
now because the background color was changed to a color that contrasts well with the test.
So white space, that is white space, this is white space, the empty space between design elements
and your user interface.
If you look here on the left, you see that.
There's lack of whitespace here.
So the design looks a bit clumsy or it looks clumsy basically, let me put it like that.
But if you look at the design on your right, you realize that there's enough whitespace to make the
design look breathable and beautiful and pleasing to the eye.
Okay.
So visual hierarchy.
Visual hierarchy is a principle of arranging design elements to show the order of importance.
So it basically let us know what elements is important, what elements the user should focus on, what
element you should see first, right?
It's visual hierarchy and direct that uses action in a way.
So when you look at the design on your left, you see last updated.
So you see the designer on the left, things are not really pleased or everything looks the same.
So it had to pick one particular thing to focus on.
You don't know if you focus on the private security or Amazon because everything, nothing stands out
here.
Aside from the logo, nothing stands out, everything looks the same.
But when you look on the design or your rights, you realize that things have been carefully positioned
in a visual hierarchy form, so it makes it easy to notice.
I'm setting or particular elements here.
In my case, the first thing I notice when I look at this design is probably C grade E because the color
is different and it stands out.
Then from then I see the logo, the Amazon logo, right?
So it has been carefully positioned and placed to direct the user's attention.
So that's basically what the short hair does.
Complexity and simplicity.
Now it is in the design world.
We say that more is not always better and simplicity is more.
Do not overwhelm your user with too much details.
When you look at the design on the left, you realize that it has too many things going on here.
So.
It makes the thing look clumsy.
Your five critical concerns found, you see.
Shadow data isn't supposed to be there.
Privacy.
Great.
Easy shadow.
And then I don't know the dollar what the dollar sign is doing in the background, but when you look
at the design on your right, you realize that everything is simple.
Nothing is complicated.
Everything is as it should be.
Consistency.
You have to make sure.
The elements in your design are consistent.
Everything is applied consistently in your design.
Everything is aligned as it should.
Buttons are placed similarly, as they should be.
So when you look on my left, you realize the alignment here is not consistent.
Things is like everything's all over the place where you look on my right, you realize that is as it
should be.
The alignment is perfect.
The spacing is good.
And then the contrast is good.
So scale.
Now when we say skill or do we mean how big or how design mean basically mean how big or how small the
design elements are in a design is shooting.
Your things should be properly placed.
It should have the right skill, shouldn't be too small that the user is unable to read or see or too
big.
That takes up too much space.
So when you look on my left, you realize that things are not going wrong there.
But when you look at my right things, everything is pleased as should be.
Thank you very much.